Hello and welcome.
In this lecture we're going to be adding sound effects to our sword and to our punches and we're also
going to be increasing the volume by bringing our microphone or the audio listener closer to the character
in question so that we can hear the sound effects from their point of view.
Let's dive in and see how so.
Let's try and get some sound effects working for our sword now.
The sound effect I think that works for the sword is this hit sound three which sounds like a metallic
clash.
And the way we're gonna do this is we're gonna go over to our weapons prefabs the sword and the equipped
sword prefab and create ourselves a new empty game object.
We're going to use for an audio source so I'm going to call this the hit sound and I'm gonna go ahead
and add a component called audio source and then use the audio clip that we had just selected so it
was hit sound three and not play on a wake and set the special blend to 3D.
Now we want to hook it up from the weapon script which currently has the unity event.
So we need to ask ourselves a simple unity event.
So it's gonna serialize field unity events and then we're going to make this unity event called on hits
with a lowercase o as opposed to the uppercase o of the method and then we want to include the using
Unity engine events to catch up with that and then we are going to make sure that we invoke this in
on hit like so and then we can go over and link this up in the prefab so we add a listener.
We drank in game objects we select at play function and then if we go ahead and hit play pick up a weapon
go and attack this God oh oh oh oh you can hear that metallic clanging sound going on there.
So that sounds good.
That's what we want.
Let's go on the bank and actually a little mini challenge for you is to do the same thing for the punching
sound.
There's no currently a punching sound you will need to create a prefab for the fist that doesn't have
any visible objects to it and so that you can have an audio source in that prefab.
So go ahead and give it a go.
So what we're gonna do is we're gonna go down to our weapons and create a new folder to store unarmed
stuff in and match against just duplicate the equipped sword and bring the equipped sword into unarmed
and then I am going to rename it to equipped unarmed
and then in that prefab I can go ahead and delete the reference to the other sword prefab and we've
got our hit sound.
I want to change the hit sound to a different sound effect I think.
SOUND EFFECT Five is good for it.
So I'm gonna use that a in my hit sound like so and it should already be hooked up because we duplicated
the prefab.
Then we should be able to go to our weapon resources unarmed and hook up the equipped prefab for unarmed
so that that will be spawned.
And now if I go ahead and hit play and I go up to this enemy you can hear that there is a thud when
he hits me.
So now we've got sound effects for both of the weapon and for what both of the weapons the unarmed and
the sword the ones should make sounds when they hit the bow and the fireball make sounds when they launch
projectiles.
So that's okay.
Now that pretty much wraps up for Santa Fe.
So I wanted to create one thing I'm noticing is that the sound effects are quite quiet.
Part of the reason for this is that our camera is all the way out here and the listener therefore is
also all the way out here so it's actually really far away from the sounds.
So it's not picking up a lot on the sounds if we go ahead and hit play we can actually see this in action.
If we go into our scene you can see that here we've got the camera all the way out here listening in
to events that are taking place all the way down here.
So a very long long way away.
And that's not what we probably want.
So two solutions.
This one you might think okay let's.
We've got a character let's put the listener on the character's head.
So we hear things as if we are the character.
Now that might seem like a good idea at first but then if you actually try it out and I do recommend
that you do give it a go.
You will notice that it's going to change the stereo of your sound depending on which way the character
is facing and that believe me is really really weird when the character is facing towards you and the
stereo is essentially inverted to what you see.
So a better solution that I found is to imagine you have kind of like a camera boom you have a boom
microphone that is coming down from the camera and is coming closer to the player and then you can tweak
how close you want the listener to be to the player.
And that's what I have decided to do.
So we're going to go to our camera prefab and we've currently got our listener attached to the camera
directly.
We're gonna create a new empty object to be the mike boom and we're gonna put the audio listener on
here directly and we are going to remove the audio listener from the camera and then I'm going to move
the mike boom just a little bit away from the camera just down the front line of the camera and what
we should be able to do is when we hit play we can then adjust this more specifically dependent on the
distance from the plan.
So if we go over into our scene and find the camera object and the core camera and want to find the
mike boom and the mike boom is actually quite close to the plate already I might move it up a little
bit.
So it's just about above overhead but you can see how the stereo here is going to work because if an
event happens over here then we're going to hear it in the right way.
If an event happens over there it's going to happen in the left ear and it will work based on where
we're looking from our perspective but it also be a little bit up closer to where the character is so
that we're hearing things based on our characters location which is the two things that we really want.
So I'm gonna go ahead and copy the component values from mike boom transform and I'm going to apply
them in mike boom in the prefab place of component values in there.
And if we go ahead and hit play now then we should be hearing these sounds a little bit louder and oh
oh oh perfect.
We are also hearing the stereo effect a little bit.
So you could notice that if you have stereo headphones or speakers then we were hearing that the attack
sounds were coming over from our right when we were attacking a player on our right.
If I move further away this is more obvious.
If I attack him with a fireball you can hear it mostly in your left ear and it gets quieter the further
away I am.
And the same will be true when I am being attacked by these guys over here.
Oh you can hear that the impact sounds are much louder than the sounds of the arrows being set off because
that is happening further away.
But we are closer to the character now.
And so things just seem to work much better with that boom arm microphone case.
I mean this lecture we've done two main things we've added some sound effects and unity events to our
weapons.
We've also brought in and like flying a bit closer to our player and still able to have the stereo effects
working correctly.
I'll see you in the next lecture.